Let's get started on this ticket show component.
So we should be able to navigate to a URL of something like tickets slash and then the ID of a ticket
and see this thing appear.
You might recall that we discussed how we implement wild card routes just a moment ago.
So we had said that if we want to have a URL of something like tickets slash wild card, we would have
to create a file inside of our pages, directory of tickets slash and then inside of square brackets
ticket ID.
Whatever word we put inside of those square brackets that will be provided to us as a parameter inside
of that context, our object that gets passed to our get initial function.
We'll take a look at that in just a little bit.
But right now, let's just create this file and make sure that we can navigate to a root of something
essentially like that.
So back inside of my editor, I'm going to find the tickets directory inside the pages folder.
And in there, I'm going to make a new file of square brackets ticket.
I'd dogs and make sure you've got the closing square bracket on there as well.
Then inside this file, let's just create a very simple component.
Export it right away and then try to test this out inside the browser.
So I'll make a component up ticket show.
I'll have it return a simple div that says ticket show.
And then I will export that.
Okay.
So let's now manually test this out inside of our browser.
The back at this tab I'm going to find ticketing dot dev and I'll change it to manually inside that
URL tickets slash and then pretty much whatever you want to put in there.
So any kind of token whatsoever, any kind of random string of characters that should be matched against
the wild card route that we just put together.
So if I go there, I'll then see a ticket show appear.
Well, okay, simple enough.
Not the worst thing in the world.
Now, creating this route is pretty easy and straightforward.
All we have to do is create the file with the brackets around the name.
That's it.
But I do want you to understand that handling navigation to this route, so specifically with a link
element or that router thing that we just saw is just a little bit more complicated when we start making
use of these kind of query or wildcard routes.
I'll show you examples of that right away as quickly as possible.
But that might.
Let's make sure.
Back over here.
I want to make sure that a user can get to this root without having to memorize this URL or having to
put in some distinct ID.
So I think that to handle navigation over to that root, we should go back over to our ticket list or
essentially the landing page component.
And we should add on a third column, they'll display a link to go to that particular ticket.
Let's do that right now.
Back inside of our landing page.
I'm going to go down to our table.
Inside of the header, I'm going to add in a third column.
And I'll give it some text like link.
And then back on our ticket list right here.
I'm going to add in a third TD.
The right here is where we're going to want to display some kind of anchor element.
You might recall from way earlier inside this course how we handle link tags or essentially anchor elements
with next DJ's.
We do not just place a single a anchor element like so.
Instead, we have to use that link component that is provided by next.
We can get a quick reminder on how that works.
If we go back to our components directory and take a look at the header JS file.
So inside of here, we add imported link from next slash link.
And then to place an actual link that a user can click on.
We're going to show an instance of the link component.
That thing is going to be given an h f property.
So that is where we want to actually navigate to.
And then we're also going to have it inside there in actual anchor element.
The anchor itself is not going to have an H ref whenever next renders this thing.
It's going to automatically take whatever h ref u provides the link and assign it to the underlying
anchor element.
So we have to do the same thing here as well back inside of our landing page component.
So inside this TDI that we just added in.
At the very top.
We will import link from next link.
Well, then put the link in.
Inside there.
I'll put my anchor element.
I'll give it some text like view.
Simple enough.
Okay.
So now here's where using these wild card routes gets just a little bit nasty.
So if we are navigating to just a very single distinct route, such as sign in, sign out, sign up.
Yeah, we would put in a single ref, put in whatever out right there and we would be happy.
Everything's good to go.
But because we are putting in a query route or a wild card route here, it's just a little bit more
complicated.
Here's what we have to do in the ref property.
We're going to put in essentially the path to the file that we want to show inside of our pages directory.
So in this case, if we click on the link, we want to show the component at tickets slash bracket,
ticket ID or square brackets ticket ID.
So we are going to write in here, slash tickets, slash square bracket, ticket ID.
We do not have to put on the file extension so there will not be any JS.
It's just a ticket slash ticket ID.
We're then going to provide a second prop called as.
We're going to put in a template string to this thing.
And inside this template string, we're going to actually build up the true real URL that we want to
navigate to.
So this would be our actual tickets slash and then the real ID of the ticket.
So for you and I, it would be tickets slash and we'll do some string templating here.
To get ID.
That's how we do a link element whenever we are navigating to a kind of wild card route.
We first put in the ref that really just describes the generic kind of general route without any customized
IDs or anything like that.
Then we separately provide as and that is the real URL that we are trying to navigate to.
Okay, so let's save this and then go do a quick test.
So it looks like we've got the view.
If I hover over this at the very bottom left hand of the screen, you'll see a little pop up right there.
And it says that I'm trying to go to ticket slash and the idea of the ticket.
So I should now be able to click this and go directly to ticket show.
Cool.
So it looks like that is working as expected.
I can, of course, also do a command click to open up a separate tab and it loads up ticket show as
well.
All right.
So again, the trick here is whenever you're placing a link for a wild card route, we have to provide
a ref into as this idea right here is going to be true or we're going to do something very similar whenever
we are doing programmatic navigation as well.
So for example, back inside of our ticket form or the new ticket component that we had just created.
We called it router push right here.
We're going to have to do something very similar to this ref.
And as a prop, when we make use of router push to go to a wild card route as well.
So just something to keep in mind.
We're going to see this topic come up in just a moment as well.
So it looks good.
We've got a starting point for ticket show.
Let's take a pause here and start to put together the implementation for that in just a moment.